.TH PHOTONS 1 "2014-11-14" "4.2"
.SH NAME
photons \- Tools for photon mode conversions 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B photons
[
.BI \-\-verbose 
] [ 
.BI \-\-help
] [
.BI \-\-version
] [
.BI \-\-file\-in= file
] [ 
.BI \-\-file\-out= file
] [ 
.BI \-\-mode= mode
] [
.BI \-\-convert= mode
] [ 
.BI \-\-time\-origin= time
] [ 
.BI \-\-repetition\-rate= rate
] [ 
.BI \-\-copy\-to\-channel= channel
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B photons
Translates photons from one mode to another, or copies all photons to a 
given channel. 
.SS Mode conversions
\fIt3 to t2\fR and \fIt2 to t3\fR are used to convert between absolute time 
(t2 mode) and time index by an excitation pulse (t3 mode). This is done by
assuming a time origin and repetiton rate to convert pulse index to time, and
vice versa:

	time (ps) = (1/repetition rate)*pulse index + time origin
.SS Copying photons to a channel
When calculating a total signal autocorrelation, as is done for PCFS and FCS,
it is simplest to copy all photons to an unused channel and perform analysis
on that channel. Use this option to create such a channel, but note that all
photons are copied, even if the source and destination channels are the same.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Mode conversions
If no conversion mode is given, the input photons are echoed exactly as they
are found:

	$ photons --mode t2 --file-in data.t2
.br 
	0,1
.br
	1,5
.br
	...

	$ photons --mode t3 --file-in data.t3
.br
	0,1,3
.br
	1,4,2
.br
	...

Given a target mode for conversion, we can use a repetition rate to convert
between the pulse index and absolute time.

	$ photons --mode t2 --file-in data.t2 --convert t3 
.br
	          --repetition-rate 5e11 
.br 
	0,0,1
.br
	1,2,1
.br
	...

	$ photons --mode t3 --file-in data.t3 --convert t2
.br 
	          --repetition-rate 5e11
.br
	0,5
.br
	1,10
.br
	...

Since the repetition rate is treated as a floating-point number, sometimes
the precision is insufficient to perform the conversion exactly: the second
photon in this example should be 0,2,0

	$ photons --mode t2 --file-in data.t2 --convert t3 
.br
	          --repetition-rate 5e11 --time-origin 1
.br
	0,0,0
.br
	0,1,2
.br
	...
.SS Copying all photons to a given channel
For calculating a full signal autocorrelation, we can copy all photon records
to an unused channel

	$ photons --mode t3 --file-in data.t3 --copy-to-channel 2
.br
	0,1,3
.br
	2,1,3
.br 
	1,4,2
.br
	2,4,2
.br
	...
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP 
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Display debug messages during exectution, sent to stderr. 
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a usage message.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version of the program.
.SS Files and formats
.TP
.BI \-i\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-file-in= file
The name of the ascii file to read from. By default this is stdin.
.TP
.BI \-o\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-file-out= file
The name of the ascii file to write to. By default this is stdout.
.SS Conversion methods
.TP
.BI \-m\  mode \fR,\ \fB\-\-mode= mode
The mode of the incoming photons.
.TP
.BI \-M\  mode \fR,\ \fB\-\-convert= mode
If converting, the mode of the output photons. This can be t2, t3, or as-t2.
.TP
.BI \-O\  time \fR,\ \fB\-\-time\-origin= time
The origin of absolute time, in picoseconds.
.TP
.BI \-R\  rate \fR,\ \fB\-\-repetition\-rate= rate
The repetition rate of the excitation source, in cycles per second.
.TP
.BI \-z\  channel \fR,\ \fB\-\-copy\-to\-channel= channel
The channel onto which all photons are to be copied.
.SH ERRORS
Errors and other debug information are output to stderr.
.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Bischof <tbischof@mit.edu>
