.TH PHOTON_NUMBER 1 "2014-11-14" "4.2"
.SH NAME
photon_number - Count the number of excitation events yielding n photons
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B photon_number
[
.BI \-\-verbose 
] [ 
.BI \-\-help
] [
.BI \-\-version
] [
.BI \-\-file\-in= file
] [ 
.BI \-\-file\-out= file
] [ 
.BI \-\-channels= channels
] [ 
.BI \-\-start= pulse
] [ 
.BI \-\-stop= pulse
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI photon_number
Counts the number of events in which 0, 1, 2, ... photons arrive after a single
excitation pulse. It takes t3 data as input and outputs a histogram of the
number of times each number of photons was detected, in a csv format:

	number of photons, times seen

It is possible to specify a window of allowed pulse numbers using --start and
--stop. If a photon arrives on the starting pulse, it is included, but if it
arrives on the stopping pulse, it is excluded. If no bounds are specified, the
first and last photons to arrive set the beginning and end of time.

If no events of n photons are found, then that entry is not printed.
.SH EXAMPLES
These examples make use of sample_data/t3.txt.

Counting all events:

	$ photon_number --file-in data.t3
.br
	0,11
.br 
	1,2
.br 
	2,2

Counting events which fall within a particular window. No 1-photon events are 
found in this window.

	$ photon_number --file-in data.t3 --start 3 --stop 13
.br
	0,7
.br
	2,2
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Display debug messages during exectution, sent to stderr. 
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a usage message.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version of the program.
.TP
.BI \-i\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-file-in= file
The name of the ascii file to read from. By default this is stdin.
.TP
.BI \-o\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-file-out= file
The name of the ascii file to write to. By default this is stdout.
.TP
.BI \-c\  channels \fR,\ \fB\-\-channels= channels
The number of channels in the data. By default, this is 2.
Internally, the maximum number of photons
in an event is set as 64 times the number of channels. Practically speaking,
this limit should be sufficient, because there should never be more than one
or two arrivals per pulse per detection channel. When working with numerous
channels or extremely high count rates, increase the number of channels.
.TP
.BI \-f\  pulse \fR,\ \fB\-\-start= pulse
The lower limit of pulse number for the run. Photons which arrive before
this number will not be processed.
.TP
.BI \-F\  pulse \fR,\ \fB\-\-stop= pulse
The upper limit of pulse number for the run. Photons which arrive on or after
this number will not be processed.
.SH ERRORS
Errors and other debug information are output to stderr.

If too many photons are seen after a single pulse, you will receive something
like the following error:

	ERROR: Too many photons: 129

If this occurs, try increasing the number of channels.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Bischof <tbischof@mit.edu>
