.TH PHOTON_SYNCED_T2 1 "2014-11-14" "4.2"
.SH NAME
photon_synced_t2 - Use an explicit sync source to translate t2 data to t3 data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B photons
[
.BI \-\-verbose 
] [ 
.BI \-\-help
] [
.BI \-\-version
] [
.BI \-\-file\-in= file
] [ 
.BI \-\-file\-out= file
] [ 
.BI \-\-sync\-channel= channel
] [ 
.BI \-\-queue\-size= size
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B photon_synced_t2
treats one channel of photon arrival data as a sync source to translate t2
data to t3 mode data. 

It can be desirable, when using a pulsed excitation source, to have a low
repetition rate but a fine resolution for timing the arrival of emission. 
Normally, one uses the t3 mode of PicoQuant hardware (PicoHarp and HydraHarp,
for example) to collect data which is timed relative to excitation pulses, but
the hardware trades resolution for the ability to measure a long time span
between excitation pulses. 

If it is necessary to resolve photon arrivals to arbitrary precision while
exciting at a low repetition rate, measure the arrivals of each excitation 
pulse directly. This is an expesive operation since the photon arrival data
is much less frequent than excitation pulses, but armed with such data we
can produce t3-mode events which emulate the result which would be achived
by hardware with t2-like precision. 

The input mode must be t2, and the output mode is t3.
.SH EXAMPLES
By default, 
.BI picoquant(1) 
outputs the sync channel as the channel index which
is one greater than the maximum signal channel. For a four-channel HydraHarp,
this is channel 4. 

	$ photon_synced_t2 --file-in data.t2 --sync-channel 4
.br
	1,0,4
.br
	...
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Display debug messages during exectution, sent to stderr. 
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a usage message.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version of the program.
.TP
.BI \-q\  size \fR,\ \fB\-\-queue\-size= size
The size of the queue for processing, in number of photons. By default this is
2^20, and if it is too small a warning message will be displayed, but the queue
size will be doubled if possible.
.TP
.BI \-j\  channel \fR,\ \fB\-\-sync\-channel= channel
Specifies the t2 channel which should be treated as the sync source for
conversion to t3 photons.
.TP
.BI \-i\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-file-in= file
The name of the ascii file to read from. By default this is stdin.
.TP
.BI \-o\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-file-out= file
The name of the ascii file to write to. By default this is stdout.
.SH ERRORS
Errors and other debug information are output to stderr.
.SH BUGS
As written, the code is unable to iterpolate between sync pulses, as would be
necessary when collecting data while using a sync divider. This option 
(--sync-divider) is neither exposed nor implemented because the external sync 
source the author uses is not sufficiently reliable to perform this 
interpolation. If you wish to use this feature, modify src/synced_t2_main.c to 
uncomment the line containing "OPT_SYNC_DIVIDER", and modify 
src/photon/synced_t2.c to perform this interpolation, in synced_t2_next. This 
code does exist in the history, but has been removed from the working version
due to these issues.

If you find 
.BI photon_synced_t2(1)
to be too slow, try removing the queue member of the synced_t2_t object. This
remains as an artifact from the use of the sync divider, and may lead to 
excessive memory copying.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Bischof <tbischof@mit.edu>
